“I’m not interested.”
Have you ever had someone
tell you that in the ministry?
Some people may simply want us to go away.
Others, however, may end the conversation
if they can’t see how our message
affects them personally.
So we need to present information
that will help our listeners
and then show them how to apply
what they just heard.
For instance, imagine that a natural disaster
has recently affected part of your territory.
How might you include
this in your presentation?
Let’s watch an example.
Hello.
It’s good to meet you.
I’m glad to see that this neighborhood
wasn’t affected by
the recent heavy rains and mudslide.
Yeah.
It wasn’t too bad here, but we did have
a few trees fall behind the house.
Well, I don’t want
to take a lot of your time.
We’re calling to talk about hope
for loved ones who’ve died.
Do you think we’ll ever see them again?
Thanks, but I’m not really interested.
What just happened?
Would you say that the publisher made clear
the practical value of his information?
Although he mentioned the recent storm,
he failed to notice
its effect on the householder.
And when he learned how the householder felt,
he didn’t tailor his presentation
to the man’s needs.
True, all of “the good news
of the Kingdom” is valuable,
but some aspects may appeal to people more
at specific times in their life.
Moreover, if we ignore topics
that are on people’s minds,
they might think we’re inconsiderate or rude.
In the example we just watched,
what Bible account
might have made the person think?
Let’s watch again.
My heart goes out to those
who’ve lost their homes
in the recent heavy rains and mudslide.
Me too!
We’ve been helping a family member
try to recover some personal belongings.
We’re just happy that no one was hurt.
That’s a relief, for sure.
And it’s nice to see the community
coming together to help one another.
Did you know that the Bible promises a time
when we’ll no longer experience
devastation from so-called natural disasters?
Really?
What do you mean?
Well, think about the power
Jesus displayed when he lived on the earth.
Notice what it says here at Mark 4:39:
“With that he got up and rebuked the wind
“and said to the sea: ‘Hush! Be quiet!’
And the wind abated.”
The publisher used a local topic of interest
and a Bible account
that the householder could relate to.
We can also make practical application
of our material when giving a talk.
However, when teaching
an audience what to do,
be careful not to burden them with guilt.
Instead, strengthen their love and faith
and express confidence in their good motives.
If you’re preparing a public talk,
consider the needs of newly interested ones.
Ask yourself, ‘How can I help
‘this audience to draw close to Jehovah
and overcome obstacles
that could hinder them from making progress?’
Let’s watch a brief excerpt
from a public talk.
Hebrews 10:24, 25 says:
“And let us consider one another
so as to incite to love and fine works,
“not forsaking our meeting together,
as some have the custom,
“but encouraging one another,
and all the more so as you see
the day drawing near.”
So if it’s your custom
to miss meetings here at the Kingdom Hall,
you need to change.
Jehovah knows
when you’re here and when you’re not.
Armageddon is coming,
and you don’t want
to miss out on everlasting life.
Was that encouraging?
Was it motivating to those attending
their first congregation meeting?
Although the speaker clearly showed
what the audience needed to do,
how might he have strengthened
their motivation?
Hebrews 10:24, 25 says:
“And let us consider one another
so as to incite
“to love and fine works,
“not forsaking our meeting together,
as some have the custom,
“but encouraging one another,
and all the more so as you see
the day drawing near.”
Within these verses we find important reasons
to attend congregation meetings regularly.
For instance, we receive encouragement.
Who doesn’t need that?
This is true “all the more so”
since we’re living in critical times
and Jehovah’s day is “drawing near.”
Moreover, attending congregation meetings
gives us the opportunity
to ‘incite others to love and fine works.’
Yes, even your presence here is motivating.
How so?
Because you’ve shown that no matter
what else is happening in your life,
there is nothing more important to you
than praising and honoring Jehovah
here with the congregation.
So just seeing you here
fills us with strength.
By making the practical value
of our message clear to our listeners,
we help them to understand
how the information affects their lives,
and we motivate them to action.